Here is my quickstart guide to Git Bash! (Credit to Tianqi Zhao 'sotzee' who created the tutorial that I based this off)

Github is a tool that allows individuals or collaborations to create objects known as repositories that can be published online on the Github website, so others can download and use it. The main attraction of Github is that it allows very convenient tracking and resotration of different versions of the files. This makes collaboration and sharing code convenient. 

Windows command prompt/power shell don't natively understand linux-style commands. Git Bash is a program that creates a Unix-stlye environment, much like that which is native to Linux and macOS, so that you can interact with Git and and your local Windows files smoothly.

The first step is to link your PC to Github. Once you have a Github account, enter the following into Git Bash:

git config --global user.name “myusername”
git config --global user.email “myemail@gmail.com”
git config --global init.defaultBranch main

The first two lines let Bash know who you are. Each time you 'commit' changes later, they will be lined to the information you enter here. This way other who view your code, and you yourself looking back on older work, can tell who made what changes to the files. It is important to ensure that this information matches that of your Github account, otherwise it may make Github angry.

The third line tells Github that whenever you create a new repository, the default branch will be 'main'. In particular, whenever you later run the command 'git init', it will start the repository on a branch named 'main', rather than 'master' which is the old convention. We will discuss branches later.

Now we are ready to link our PC to our Github account. We do this by generating what is called a SSH key pair: a private key and a public key. The public key serves as a lock and you can give it out freely, but your private key lives only on your PC and is the key to the lock. This key and lock pair allows Github to identify you as the author of changes, without having to login with a username and password each time. To generate this key pair, type:

ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C “myemail@gmail.com”

Where -t ed25519 refers to cryptographic algorithm used to generate the keys, and -C "myemail@gmail.com" appends your email to the end of your public key so that it is immediately identifieable as being yours. Then use:

eval “$(ssh-agent -s)”
ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub

And the terminal should print your public key, which should look something like the following:

ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAIIV0O2fLFki2mfS2T39Dn27dJvHRU2RsoyqFnjee9gAB myemail@gmail.com

Now, on the GitHub website, go to GitHub → Settings → SSH and GPG keys → New SSH key. Paste the key, title it the same as your PC/device, and save it. 
Your PC should now be able to talk to GitHub and commit/push changes to files in your repositories.


Coming soon: Quick start on Git commands, how to create repositories, add files, commit, restore, and push changes.
